---
title: Web4
subtitle: Web4 is Web3 envolved, decentralizing user powers and controls.
---

This document describes the initiative regarding what we term as
"Web4". Web4 is Web3 envolved. In Web3, we build decentralized
blockchains. Web4 is where we further decentralize user powers and
controls. The initiative aims at trackling problems in blockchain's
further decentralization efforts -- decentralizing the infrastructure
and software, and decentralizing the governance.

At this moment, we focus our efforts on governance decentralization.

## Communities

* Matrix: [#web4:matrix.org](https://matrix.to/#/#web4:matrix.org)

## Visions

### Not just on-chain

We should not limit ourselves to only one form of governance
structure. Well-researched existing solutions, especially those that
have proven to be extremely resilient (think segwit2x) should also be
discussed and considered. We think on-chain governance is a great
innovation. However, we do not hang ourselves in a single tree.

In addition to appreciating the benefits of on-chain governance, we
also discuss the fundamental problems with on-chain goverance -- game
theoritic attacks, participation and the vote-by-feet problem,
non-representativeness, etc. We do not shy away from those problems,
and we'll eagerly discuss other solutions, be it L2 or off-chain, used
alongside of on-chain goverance to fix those issues.

### Plutocracy is not optimal

We don't consider the current system of plutocracy, like it's
currently been the case on Polkadot, to be anything close to optimal
solutions for blockchain governance. We would be considering
improvements or alternatives where, not just whales, but voters with
ordinary amount of coins and with high devotion to a project, can also
have reasonable amount of voices.

We don't want a governance system where everything is decided by only
just a few whales, either due to plutocracy itself or due to low voter
participation.

### System matters, impact matters

We would consider systems that will actually encourage holders,
developers and builders alike to participate, develop and build. We
don't consider things to be "working as expected" if it clearly has
impact problems, if it clearly discourages participation or brings
hostility into the ecosystem.

If certain decisions are made which later turned out to be objectively
bad, we don't blame the voters or say "this was just what the voters
wanted", but we look into the governance system design to see if our
incentive mechanism design is wrong. We believe it's never the voters'
fault, but always the governance system's fault.

### Blockchain agnostic

We do not limit ourselves in just Polkadot. We do not constrain our
study on what is possible in Polkadot. We look into a range of
blockchains, especially those with a different and potentially better
governance system, for example, Cardano CIP-1964, Decred, etc. We
design the initiative so that it can benefit the entire blockchain
ecosystem.
